## Financial Reports

Financial Reports help you understand recruitment costs and ROI and where to optimize your recruitment spending. Each report can be toggled to display either averages or totals.

### DASHBOARD

**RECRUITMENT COST**

The average cost of recruiting a panelist.

##### COST MULTIPLIER (# of overall recruits needed to generate one Active Panelist)

The cost multiple looks at the total number of recruited panelists vs. how many of those became active.

> Multiplier = # Active panelist / # Recruited panelists

##### ACTUAL RECRUITMENT COST

This shows the average cost for Recruiting an **Active panelist** (as defined in the main Settings tab on the left-hand side of the SampleNinja platform), which would be expressed in reward points.

This is a calculation of **Recruitment Cost** and fulfilling the criteria for an **Active Panelist**, since not all recruited panelists fulfill the criteria for active panelists.

Reward costs are calculated by tracking all the various recruitment sources into the Panel and keeping track of the individual cost per panelist per recruitment source.

##### REVENUE

The average revenue per panelist or the total revenue for all panelists.

##### REWARDS AWARDED

The average reward points awarded or the number of reward points given out. 

##### REWARDS REDEEMED

The average rewards redeemed or the total number of reward points redeemed.

##### REWARDS LIABILITY

The average rewards liability or the total rewards.

Calculated as **Total Rewards Awarded - Total Rewards Redeemed**.

> Rewards liability is calculated using panelists who are currently subscribed. Any panelist not currently subscribed cannot redeem any reward points they may have on their account.

#### ADD FILTER

**Time in Panel**

This allows you to filter panelists based on their length of membership in the Panel over a given period.

**Activity in period**

This allows you to filter panelists based on their last activity over a given period.

**Query filter**

> This gives unprecedented reporting possibilities to interrogate the recruitment data by age, gender, salary, education etc. The possibilities are endless. Do you recruit Young females earning $45,000+ from a particular recruitment source, and are they the best of this target group? etc

#### BY RECRUITMENT SOURCE

This vital reporting screen gives a breakdown of costs based on all defined **Recruitment Sources** (In the main menu items on the left side of the screen).  It allows users to track their ad spending from various panel recruitment sources and affiliates.

**The report of Average values (AVERAGE) shows the following headings:**

- **NAME** The name of the recruitment source
- **COST** The average cost to the panel to recruit via this particular source
- **MULTIPLIER** The cost multiplier tells you how many panelists are active vs. the total recruited count.
- **ACTIVE COST** This is a calculation of the average COST for an individual recruitment source and fulfilling the criteria for an **Active Panelist**, since not all recruited panelists fulfill the requirements for an active panelist.
- **REVENUE** This is the average number of reward points generated by all the projects undertaken by respondents recruited by a particular recruitment source
- **REWARDED** This is the average number of points rewarded
- **REDEEMED** This is the average number of points redeemed
- **LIABILITY** This is the average number of points still to be redeemed by panelists recruited

**The report of Total values (Total) shows the following headings:**

- **NAME** The name of the recruitment source
- **COUNT** Displays how many Panelists have been recruited
- **REVENUE** This is the total number of reward points generated by all the projects undertaken by respondents recruited
- **REWARDED** This is an total number of points **rewarded** 
- **REDEEMED** This is an total number of points **redeemed** 
- **LIABILITY** This is the total number of points still to be redeemed


##### ADD FILTER

#### Time in Panel

This allows you to filter panelists based on how long they have been members over a given period.

#### Activity in period

This allows you to filter panelists based on their last activity over a given period.

#### Query filter

Creating any custom Query filter (using ANY Data Variables) to slice and dice the reports is possible.

##### Enabled sources only

This limits the report by the Enabled recruitment sources in the Recruitment Source main menu Item.

**It is possible to download this report to Excel**

### BY SUB PANEL

This vital reporting screen gives a breakdown of costs based on **Sub Panels**  It allows users to track the ads spent on the various sub-panels.

**The report of Average values (AVERAGE) shows the following headings:**

- **NAME** The name of the Sub Panel
- **COST** The average cost to the panel to recruit via this Sub Panel
- **MULTIPLIER** This Unique calculation generates a factor called the **Cost Multiplier** for that individual Sub Panel. The following calculation generates this:
- **ACTIVE COST** This is a calculation of the average COST for an individual Sub Panel as well as fulfilling the criteria for an **Active Panelist**, since not all recruited panelists fulfill the criteria for an active panelist
- **REVENUE** This is the average number of reward points generated by all the projects undertaken by respondents recruited by a particular Sub Panel
- **REWARDS AWARDED** This is an average number of points rewarded for Panelists recruited by a specific Sub Panel
- **REWARDS REDEEMED** This is an average number of points redeemed for Panelists recruited by a specific Sub Panel
- **REWARDS LIABILITY** This is an average number of points still to be Redeemed by Panelists recruited from a specific Sub Panel

**The report of Total values (Total) shows the following headings:**

- **NAME** The name of the Sub Panel
- **COUNT** Displays how many Panelists have been recruited by that Sub Panel
- **COST** The total cost to the panel to recruit via this particular Sub Panel
- **REVENUE** This is the total number of reward points generated by all the projects undertaken by respondents recruited by a specific Sub Panel
- **REWARDS AWARDED** This is the total number of points rewarded for Panelists recruited by a specific Sub Panel
- **REWARDS REDEEMED** This is the total number of points redeemed for Panelists recruited by a specific Sub Panel
- **REWARDS LIABILITY** This is the total number of points still to be Redeemed by Panelists recruited from a specific Sub Panel

##### ADD FILTER

#### Time in Panel
This allows you to filter panelists based on how long they have been members over a given period.

#### Activity in period
This allows you to filter panelists based on their last activity over a period.

#### Query filter

Creating any custom Query filter (using ANY Data Variables) to slice and dice the reports is possible.

