### Disqualify participants

Paste a list of panelist identifiers and select the "Disqualify" action you would like to take. You can only disqualify panelists with status ```completed```. The disqualification process will revert any **rewards** or **revenue** generated by the panelists.

You can paste IDs of either **Disqualified Completes** or **Qualified completes**.

#### Disqualified completes
In this mode the panelist IDs pasted in will be disqualied if they have status **Completed**

#### Qualified completes
In this mode the panelist IDs pasted in should be qualified and verified **completes**. 

> You must do this action in a single batch as all completes not matching the pasted list will be disqualified! 

#### Pasting IDs
The identifier list should only contain panelist identifiers in format ```494d4c81-f109-4551-8929-0870d9b79d84``` one per line. Optionally the identifiers can be separated by comma and/or be enclosed in quotation marks. Line items that cannot be parsed will be displayed in the errors box. Duplicate identifiers pasted are automatically removed with a warning.

Once submitted the server will verify that each panelist has ```completed``` status in the project. Any invalid identifiers are returned back.

> If your survey platform is capable of identifying duplicates and participants with quality issues like straight lining you can use the appropiate exit links to terminate them immediately. See **Project configuration** -> **Exit links** for more details.

### What does the disqualification process do?
The disqualification process handles rolling back "completed" status in the following steps:

1) Delete **completed record**
2) Rollback any earned **reward points**
3) Rollback any earned **revenue**
4) Create either **quality record** or **duplicate record** based disqualification reason
5) Rollback project complete
6) Rollback project quotas

> You can disqualify panelists while your project is running! **Sample Ninja's Sampling Engine** will automatically find replacement panelists and invite them to the project!
